# Note c-242434160
**Date:** 2026-04-12T22:34:46.198Z
**Author:** The Other Girls
**Reactions:** {"❤":4}
**Replies:** 1
**Context:** comment_restack
---My Catholic, Western mother was forever dismissing war in the Middle East as a ‘them’ problem. “They’re always fighting,” she’d say, and of course ‘they/them’ were the Jews and Muslims—this problem that was lumped in together and somehow separate from “Christian” nations that didn’t fight. 

It wasn’t until I got older that I saw how much of a role Christian nations had in that fight, particularly seeing what shit-stirrers America in particular were, and how much Israel’s modern conception was in many ways "Little America." Reading about Arab-Jews who weren’t an underclass and were suddenly forced into Israel but as an underclass. There’s no doubt that Western frameworks, Christian frameworks of hierarchy and imperialism, made things worse for the Jews and Muslims who already lived there, particularly the many who couldn’t split their identity anymore than they could cut themselves in half.

Brian is clearly more informed than I am on the history of integrated culture here; I'm coming into it late. What's increasingly apparent is that Israel in its modern form has made the world less safe for Muslims and Jews, not just there, but everywhere. Hate crimes have spiked significantly again both groups in my country and we’re on the other side of the world. But of course that’s what’s happening. Jews are an easy fall guy because it ties in with old paranoia about them, just as Muslims are because they're framed as unknowable and unrelatable to the West. 

It's so easy to be my mother, to dismiss it as a 'them' problem. But let's not forget who the puppet-masters are here.